---
title: "Human-robot Coordination Control for Sit-to-Stand Assistance in Hemiparetic Patients with Supernumerary Robotic Leg"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2015-10-01-paper-title-number-3
excerpt: 'Jie Zuo, Jun Huo, Xiling Xiao, Yanzhao Zhang and Jian Huang'
date: 11 June 2025
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering'
slidesurl: 'https://academicpages.github.io/files/slides3.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/11030392'
citation: 'Jie Zuo<sup>#</sup>, Jun Huo<sup>#</sup>, Xiling Xiao, Yanzhao Zhang and Jian Huang. Human-robot Coordination Control for Sit-to-Stand Assistance in Hemiparetic Patients with Supernumerary Robotic Leg. <i>IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering</i>, vol. 22, pp. 16591-16602, 2025.'
---

In light of global aging and prevalent stroke-related hemiplegia, this study addresses challenges in robot-assisted Sit-to-Stand (STS) movements, a daily activity prone to falls. Supernumerary Robotic Legs (SRL) serve as independent support, enhancing stability and limb movement range. Existing coordination control methods lack personalization for STS assistance, requiring solutions for human intent transmission and rapidly optimize coordination control challenges in the non-coupled human-robot system. The proposed human-SRL coordination control algorithm, grounded in personalized SRL-human coupling models, incorporates surface electromyography (sEMG) signals to design an intent-driven variable stiffness impedance control. The inclusion of incremental learning enables rapid optimization of impedance parameters, facilitating real-time adjustments in SRL assistance for adaptive coupling with users. Practical experiments involving both healthy participants and hemiparetic patients validate the algorithm’s effectiveness during STS. The results validate substantial reductions in STS time (39.54%) and muscle activity (28.01%), highlighting the efficacy of the proposed algorithm-controlled SRL support for hemiparetic individuals. Note to Practitioners—To prevent misalignment between the SRL and natural limb movements, which can impose additional strain on the body, this study combines the principles of joint bio-mimicry to develop a personalized human-robot coupling model, and also propose an sEMG-based adaptive impedance control algorithm. Our research fills a gap in the nuanced analysis of robot-assisted support effects on both the affected and unaffected sides of hemiparetic patients, while also possessing the potential for transfer or extension to other types of rehabilitation robotic platforms. Although the SRL shows promising results, it is important to note the limitations of a small sample size and the need for further exploration of the needs of diverse patient populations. Future research could build on our findings by integrating additional sensing technologies and optimizing control strategies to enhance adaptability. This work has the potential to significantly improve the daily lives of individuals with mobility impairments, paving the way for more personalized and effective rehabilitation solutions.
